Quote	Verb	Type	Author	Title	Page	Original Publication Date	Original Publisher	Reprint Collection	Reprint Publisher	Reprint Publication Date	Pseudonymn																

[S]he did not cry. She did not, of course, realize that she was to stay here indefinitely, but if she had, even at that age she would hardly have shed tears, she was always too eager, too curious to know, to taste what was going to happen next.	scoop	literature	Jessie Redmon Fauset	&ldquo;The Sleeper Wakes&raquo	2	1920	The Crisis	The Sleeper Wakes: Harlem Rennaissance Stories by Women	Rutgers University Press	1993																	

A woman who deals in poison cannot be trusted, whatever she says.	mix	literature	Mary Ellen Bamford	Father Lambert&rsquo;s Family: A Story of Old-Time France	63	1888	Phillips & Hunt																				

Alert for any sound of footfalls nigh, she holds her breath to listen. Her right hand rests on a long knife in her belt.	cut	literature	Zitk‡la-_‡	&ldquo;A Warrior&rsquo;s Daughter, &ldquo;American Indian Stories&rdquo;	146	1921	Hayworth Publishing				Gertrude Bonnin																

For the first time in many years the tired woman rested, body and heart and brain.	move	literature	Isabella Macdonald Alden	The King&rsquo;s Daughter	13	1873	D. Lothrop & Co.		Creation House	1992																	

From her unerring long knife the enemy falls heavily at her feet.	cut	literature	Zitk‡la-_‡	&ldquo;A Warrior&rsquo;s Daughter, &ldquo;American Indian Stories&rdquo;	151	1921	Hayworth Publishing				Gertrude Bonnin																

From now on until death she was going to have flower dust and springtime sprinkled over everything.	pour	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	32	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

Her old thoughts were going to come in handy now, but new words would have to be made and said to fit them.	mix	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	32	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

I don&rsquo;t even remember of feeling &ldquo;drunk.&rdquo; What kind of a feeling is it? 	shake	literature	S. Alice Callahan	Wynema: A Child of the Forest	43	1891	H.J. Smith 		University Nebraska Press	1997																	

If only women could bring into their homes this self-sacrificing attitude toward life! Isn&rsquo;t it just as satisfying to the soul to feel you have scrubbed a floor faithfully as to be mistress of the house?	put	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	77	1927	Double Day																				

Intuitions are given to women, not because they are the weaker sex, but because they are the mothers of the world, and they are thus given the strongest protection against unseen and unseeable evils.	throw	literature	Lilian Lida Bell	Angela&rsquo;s Quest	135	1910	Duffield & Co.				Mrs. Arthur Hoyte Bogue																

She and her children have eggs and buttered rolls for breakfast each morning like millionaires.	pour	literature	Anzia Yezierska	&ldquo;The Fat of the Land&rdquo;	79	1920	Houghton Mifflin	How I Found America: Collected Stories of Anzia Yezierska	Persea Books	1991																	

She did not talk to people as if they were strange hard shells she had to crack open to get inside. She talked as if she were already in the shell. In their very shell.	peel	literature	Marita Bonner	&ldquo;Nothing New&rdquo;	121	1926	The Crisis	The Sleeper Wakes: Harlem Rennaissance Stories by Women	Rutgers University Press	1993																	

She had an inside and an outside now and suddenly she knew how not to mix them.	mix	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	72	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

She has a way of getting an idea and letting it simmer on the back of her brain, as you may say, when nobody knows it&rsquo;s been cooking at all, and then suddenly bringing it out cooked and seasoned and ready to serve.	turn-on	literature	Mary Roberts Rinehart	Tish	107	1912	Curtis Publishing		Houghton Mifflin	1916																	

She lost her soul. 	empty	literature	Kate Langley Bosher	People Like That	132	1916	Harper & Brothers																				

She was living in bad society; and imaginary though it was, its influence affected her, for she was feeding heart and fancy on dangerous and unsubstantial food, and was fast brushing the innocent bloom from her nature by a premature acquaintance with the darker side of life	squeeze	literature	Louisa May Alcott	"Little Women or Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy"	330	1868-69	Roberts Brothers		"Sampson Low, Marston, Low, and Searle"	1872																	

So gradually, she pressed her teeth together and learned to hush.	press	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	71	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

That frail, bent old thing making of her nothing a feast of plenty, feeding with it little hungry mouths that never had enough.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	225	1927	Double Day																				

Women have washed and baked, scrubbed, cried and prayed themselves into their graves for thousands of years, and no person has written a book advising them not to work too hard	wash	literature	Olive San Louie Anderson	"An American Girl, and Her Four Years in a Boys&rsquo; College"	98	1878	D. Appleton and Company				SOLA																

Her marriage didn&rsquo;t survive, but her two genetic daughters were given a chance to learn to read and write, cook, garden, and sew. That isn&rsquo;t enough to know in this world, of course, but it&rsquo;s more than most poor people learn.	fill	literature	Octavia Butler	Parable of the Talents	87	1998	Hachette Book Group																				

Adjusting to a marriage with a man who then only wants you to be at home or to cook and raise children is a big shock. Lots of women cannot do it.	take	literature	Qanta Ahmed	In the Land of Invisible Women: A Female Doctor&rsquo;s Journey in the Saudi Kingdom	305	2008	Sourcebooks Inc.																				

Girls, on the other hand, were always cooking, cleaning, sewing, crying, praying, taking care of babies or old people, and going to church.	squeeze	literature	Octavia Butler	Parable of the Talents	326	1998	Hachette Book Group																				

The disgrace of economically independent women exposing themselves by eating in public (instead of within the security of high-walled homes) pained him.	open	literature	Qanta Ahmed	In the Land of Invisible Women: A Female Doctor&rsquo;s Journey in the Saudi Kingdom	212	2008	Sourcebooks Inc.																				

But then you don&rsquo;t see anything to show there are real people living here&#59; even the air itself is empty&#58; no delicious food cooking, no odors, no sounds. Just nothing.	empty	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	6	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

What MotherLove does is cook brew in huge metal madramuz by day, and by night people go to her shack to drink.	fill	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	72	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

As Ilse saut&eacute;ed garlic and ginger, the kitchen filled with a luxurious, tangy odor. She chopped the pork and set the girls to work on the peppers and scallions and cabbage.	cut	literature	Lynne Sharon Schwartz	&ldquo;Killing the Bees&rdquo; Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	130	1999	Penguin Books																				

I look closely at her long hand, at the thing she is eating. It&rsquo;s flat, and the outer part is crusty. The top is creamish and looks fluffy and soft, and there are coin-like things on it, a deep pink, the color of burn wounds.	put	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	8	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

Their mothers invite me to taste-test their Chinese cooking. &ldquo;Very authentic.&rdquo; I try to be reassuring.	adjust	literature	Gish Jen	&ldquo;What Means Switch&rdquo; Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	177	1999	Penguin Books																				

Then they carefully chew, tilting their heads to the side as if the food speaks and they are listening to the taste.	close	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	163	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

My throat goes dry&semi; my tongue salivates. I am remembering the taste of all these things, but remembering is not tasting, and it is painful.	cut	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	211	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

Babies are born and raised, the food is cooked. The world is cleaned and mended and kept in order. Kept sane. That one could live with dignity and joy even in poverty. That even tragedy and shock and loss require this basis of loving attendance.	check	literature	Diane Di Prima	"from My Life as a Woman, Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	308	1999	Penguin Books																				

I jumped into my shoes, started the coffee, reached for my comb&mdash;all in one breath.	scoop	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	1	1927	Double Day																				

[S]he had stayed up the whole night before, cooking. She&rsquo;d prepared a canned ham with yellow sweet potatoes, wing beans with pork, sweet and sour mustard cabbage, fresh raw yellow-fin, pickled eggplant, and rice with red beans.	fill	literature	Sylvia A. Watanabe	&ldquo;Talking to the Dead&rdquo; Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	358	1999	Penguin Books																				

The dinner-party broke up in a panic, and from that time my father could not abide the girl.	turn-off	literature	Pauline Hopkins	"Of One Blood Or, The Hidden Self"	51	1902	The Colored American Magazing		Washington Square Press	2004																	

Mrs. Hershbein fried a few pieces of fat with onions to put a meat taste into the barley soup.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	15	1927	Double Day																				

Like hundreds of chattering sparrows, the girls crowded into the dining room. The smell of steaming potatoes and fried liver!	turn-on	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	30	1927	Double Day																				

I swallowed everything on my plate. The liver tasted better than anything I could cook for myself.	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	32-3	1927	Double Day																				

My body opened a million mouths of famine, sucking in thirstily the softness.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	38	1927	Double Day																				

Was I to be lost to myself as a servant? Come down from all I dreamed of being to washing dishes, peeling potatoes, taking orders from a mistress?	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	59	1927	Double Day																				

If housework can&rsquo;t lift me, I&rsquo;ll lift housework.	move	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	63-4	1927	Double Day																				

Did I really want to spend every day of my life on nothing more important than cooking things that you eat up anyway?	take	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	66	1927	Double Day																				

And while I was trying to think it out, my soup burned, my milk boiled over, dishes dropped from my hands.	throw	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	66	1927	Double Day																				

There was a fire inside of me that could cook and clean its way into the hearts of people just as if I were an actress on the stage.	insert	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	70	1927	Double Day																				

My dumb lips drinking inspiration out of her lips.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	77	1927	Double Day																				

Devouring lips that would eat me up if I let them.	take	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	99	1927	Double Day																				

It seemed to me that for ages upon ages I stood there at the sink, washing endless stacks of dishes.	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	165	1927	Double Day																				

I did not neglect to pick my Lizzie a handful of the fruit that had just reached perfect ripeness upon the topmost branches, fruit that customarily we were forced to leave as a little tribute for the thrushes. 	take	literature	Angela Carter	Nights at the Circus	36	1984	Penguin Books																				

She had me sit meself down and have a cup with her, which I did willingly enough, in spite of my trepidtion, for that long walk had worn me out and I was starving hungry.	empty	literature	Angela Carter	Nights at the Circus	57	1984	Penguin Books																				

I saw the old woman peacefully bent over the washtub, near the hot kitchen stove, unmindful of all the noise outside.	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	168	1927	Double Day																				

The baby in one arm. A loaf of bread in the other. In both her hands she clutched her apron with half-peeled potatoes.	scoop	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	184	1927	Double Day																				

My kitchen stint included sexual harassment so common that it became background noise, and a sexual assault, which did not.	turn-off	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				
Here&rsquo;s how&#58; I bought into the idea that talk in the kitchen was just talk, and that a thick skin would indeed protect me. But it wasn&rsquo;t and it didn&rsquo;t, because a sexualized workplace is a dangerous workplace for women.	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				

When the entire culture of a place is lewd, it makes it impossible to tell which men are dangerous.	dry	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				


Two-thirds of female restaurant workers reported experiencing sexual harassment from management in a 2014 survey, and 80 percent reported it from co-workers, according to research from advocacy group Restaurant Opportunities Center United.	squeeze	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				

&ldquo;[T]here is no question that service employees that have come forward with sex harassment allegations in the high-end restaurant industry have been unfairly maligned, especially when it comes to future employment.&rdquo;	flip	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen&rdquo;		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

To me, feasting, feeding and eating with people remains a generous and celebratory act, one I find beautiful. And I know that to succeed in restaurants, which are notoriously challenging both physically and financially, passion is key.	pour	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

A celebrity chef told me that her shirt was ripped off of her when she was working as a line cook early on in her career.	remove	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen&rdquo;		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

In all of my conversations with women in the food industry, I was struck by the pattern of young women who were drawn to restaurants as a possible career&mdash;and who changed their minds after their early experiences.	flip	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen&rdquo;		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

High-end kitchens have long been regarded as a male domain, with culinary students worshiping brutal but allegedly brilliant men...	press	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;Sexism in the Kitchen&rdquo;		19 October 2015	The New York Times																				

Slapping with tongs, snapping bras, relentless grabbing&mdash;women chefs learn quickly to crouch, never bend over, when picking up a pot.	adjust	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;Sexism in the Kitchen&rdquo;		19 October 2015	The New York Times																				

[F]emale chefs on television showcase their skills in their own homes, or sets designed to look like them, reinforcing the notion that that&rsquo;s where women cook.	close	journalism	Marnie Hanel	&ldquo;A Woman&rsquo;s Place is Running the Kitchen&rdquo;		28 March 2014	The New York Times																				

Should home cooks throw out the cookbooks from chefs exposed for regularly grabbing and propositioning women? What if the chef is facing sexual assault charges?	empty	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;Food Writing in the #MeToo Era&rdquo;		16 July 2018	The New York Times																				

The woman was supposed to cook at home, for the family...she had been appointed by the president, and that no one else mattered.	shake	journalism	Elaine Sciolino	&ldquo;Culinary Battles of Mitterand&rsquo;s Chef go From Kitchen to Screen&rdquo;		26 October 2012	The New York Times																				

They nickname her Countess du Barry after the favorite mistress of King Louis XV, and Mamie Nova, after a brand of dairy products that has a grandmother as its logo.	remove	journalism	Elaine Sciolino	&ldquo;Culinary Battles of Mitterand&rsquo;s Chef go From Kitchen to Screen&rdquo;		26 October 2012	The New York Times																				

[S]he becomes a self-righteous Joan of Arc of the kitchen.	check	journalism	Elaine Sciolino	&ldquo;Culinary Battles of Mitterand&rsquo;s Chef go From Kitchen to Screen&rdquo;		26 October 2012	The New York Times																				

[S]he realized early on that to survive in this new job, she needed an old kitchen skill&#58; the ability to appear tough, harsh and thick-skinned. She, like most chefs at the time, had been trained in restaurant kitchens where shouting, sexism and slashing insults were the norm.	take	journalism	Julia Moskin and Kim Severson	&ldquo;April Bloomfield Breaks Her Silence About Harassment at Her Restaurants&rdquo;		16 October 2018	The New York Times																				

It always seems very strange to me that women are home cooking and they don&rsquo;t get paid.	take	journalism	Judy Klemesrud	&ldquo;A Woman Chef at the Waldorf is Hotel&rsquo;s First&rdquo;		12 February 1973	The New York Times																				

[S]he complained she was consigned to an area of the kitchen referred to by her male colleagues as &ldquo;the c*** corner.&rdquo;	squeeze	journalism		&ldquo;Men in Ramsay&rsquo;s Kitchen Made my Life Hell, Says Woman Chef&rdquo;		22 April 2011	The Times																				

They can stand the heat and they have every intention of taking more ground in the kitchen.	turn-on	journalism	Gabriella Bennett	&ldquo;Festival&rsquo;s All-Female Line-up Reflects Change in the Professional Kitchen&rdquo;		1 May 2017	The Times																				

Many women expressed relief that the systemic misogyny and sexual harassment they have experienced in their workplaces have become public knowledge.	wash	journalism	Julia Moskin	&ldquo;Star Sommelier Resigns After Accusations of Sexual Assault&rdquo;		7 November 2019	The New York Times																				

She decided to work harder, knowing that pushing back could put her job in jeopardy.	adjust	journalism	Julia Moskin and Kim Severson	&ldquo;Ken Friedman, Power Restaurateur, Is Accused of Sexual Harassment&rdquo;		12 December 2017	The New York Times																				

&ldquo;&lsquo;Everyone&rsquo; means the male chefs and the male restaurant owners and the male C.F.O.s,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Advancement is incredibly hard for women in this industry because you never know what the men are saying about you.&rdquo;	press	journalism	Julia Moskin and Kim Severson	&ldquo;Ken Friedman, Power Restaurateur, Is Accused of Sexual Harassment&rdquo;		12 December 2017																					

Interviews with more than 30 women in the industry suggest that sexual harassment is routine and sexual assault is pervasive. Many said they had been assaulted on the job by men they reported to or had professional relationships with.	squeeze	journalism	Julia Moskin	&ldquo;A Celebrity Sommelier Is Accused of Sexual Assault&rdquo;		1 November 2019																					

A former McDonald&rsquo;s employee who says a manager at a Michigan store grabbed her breasts and buttocks is suing the chain, blaming her mistreatment on what she calls a culture of sexual harassment at the fast-food company.	take	journalism	David Yaffe-Bellany	&ldquo;McDonald&rsquo;s Lawsuit Targets ÔPervasive&rsquo; Culture of Sexual Harassment&rdquo;		12 November 2019																					

It isn&rsquo;t just the notoriously sexist culture of restaurant kitchens that is at fault, but the economic structure that turns customers into shadow employers, leaving servers&mdash;so often women&mdash;vulnerable to the predations anyone picking up the bill might feel entitled to exercise.	squeeze	journalism	Ginia Bellafante	&ldquo;When Living on Tips Means Putting Up With Harassment&rdquo;		17 October 2014																					

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s stupid. A chef is a chef.&rdquo;	flip	journalism	Miranda Bryant	&ldquo;Three Michelin Stars! Meet the First Woman to Smash America&rsquo;s Boys&rsquo; Club&rdquo;		11 February 2019	The Guardian																				

Today, Mario Batali surrendered ownership of all of his restaurants. In 2017, @hels wrote about the celebrity chef&rsquo;s long history of disregard for boundaries, and his #MeToo-era reckoning	empty	socialmedia	The New Yorker			6 March 2019																					

&ldquo;The #MeToo movement has uncovered a myriad of abuses in the restaurant industry that must be addressed&rdquo;	turn-on	socialmedia	Time			11 February 2019																					

Mario Batali stepped away from his restaurant empire after several women accused him of sexual harassment and assault. Like some of the men accused of misconduct during the #MeToo movement, Batali faced civil litigation but had avoided criminal charges.	peel	socialmedia	The Boston Globe			22 May 2019																					

EXCLUSIVE: BBC chef who stars in show with Mary Berry banned from own restaurant over sexual harassment claims Dan Doherty, ex-Duck &amp; Waffle head chef, investigated after demanding &ldquo;blow job&rdquo; and asking female staff for sex. #MeToo meets culinary world	remove	socialmedia	Gabriel Pogrund			29 January 2019																					

Shocking tales from the kitchen here&mdash;is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?	open	socialmedia	Telegraph Woman			29 January 2019																					

We reached a settlement for 11 former employees of NYC restaurant The Spotted Pig after finding owner Ken Friedman subjected employees to severe incidents of unwanted touching &amp; sexual advances. The survivors will get $240K & a 10-year profit share from the restaurant. #MeToo	wash	socialmedia	NY AG James			7 January 2020																					

Working people should be safe on the job, free from sexual harassment, assault, and other awful behavior/actions. For too long, corporations like McDonald&rsquo;s ignored what happened inside their restaurants. That changes now. #MeToo	mix	socialmedia	Jobs for Justice			23 May 2019																					

The investigation, which began in 2018, also found that employees had endured &ldquo;severe and pervasive incidents of unwanted touching and unwelcome sexual advances&rdquo; by Mario Batali. The inquiry into Mr. Batali remains open.	open	socialmedia	NYT Food			7 January 2020																					

Actions have consequences. Major #WomensHistoryMonth milestone moment for the brave survivors of serial sexual harasser Mario Batali, who sold all shares of his restaurants. May ALL restaurants and kitchens be safe from abuse. #WeSaidEnough #MeToo	cut	socialmedia	Christine Pelosi			6 March 2019																					

A line cook is less likely to pretend a baguette is a penis, but has #MeToo has really changed the restaurant business?	check	socialmedia	Kim Severson			27 September 2019																					

We both agree there have been significant changes since towering culinary figures like John Besh, Mario Batali and Ken Friedman fell after women told their stories about sexual harassment, abuse and assault.	wash	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;How #MeToo Changed Your Lunch&rdquo;		27 September 2019	The New York Times																				

Sexual harassment in the hospitality industry has deep roots tied to racial, gender and economic oppression, she said. A new human resource policy or a pat on the back for an enlightened manager are mere Band-Aids.	insert	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;How #MeToo Changed Your Lunch&rdquo;		27 September 2019	The New York Times																				

