Quote	Verb	Type	Author	Title	Page	Original Publication Date	Original Publisher	Reprint Collection	Reprint Publisher	Reprint Publication Date	Pseudonymn																
If he wanted her to cook for pigs he had only to say so. She knew how to cook for pigs and she knew how to cook for people	adjust	literature	Kate Chopin	A Night in Acadie	14	1897	Way & Williams																				
"No one who cooks, cooks alone. Even at her most solitary, a cook in the kitchen is surrounded by generations of cooks past, the advice and menus of cooks present, the wisdom of cookbook writers."	turn	literature	Laurie Colwin	Home Cooking: A Writer in the Kitchen	"""Preface"""																						
"La cucina bears the scents of its past, and every event in its history is recorded with an olfactory memorandum."	pour	literature	Lily Prior	La Cucina		2000	Ecco		Ecco	2001																	
You wake up one morning married to a stranger who loves rye bread so dense you better duck if a loaf comes sailing towards you. 	throw	podcast	Michaele Weissman	"The Rye Bread Marriage, featured on The Splendid Table podcast"		Aired 27 February 2020	NPR																				
"There ain't a body, be it mouse or man, that ain't made better by a little soup."	insert	literature	Kate DiCamillo	The Tale of Despereaux	233	2003	Candlewick Press																				
I don't believe in twisting yourself into knots of excuses and explanations over the food you make. 	squeeze	literature	Julia Child	My Life in France	71	2006	Alfred A. Knopf																				
You could learn everything about a couple just watching their kitchen choreography as they prepared dinner	move	literature	Erica Bauermeister	The School of Essential Ingredients	60	2009	G. P. Putnam's Sons																				
"[The kitchen] was also messy--delightfully so, thought Jane--and it didn't look as though lots of cooking went on there... This is the kitchen of a Thinker, she decided, and promised herself that she'd never bother with cooking, either."	turn-off		Jeanne Birdsall	The Penderwicks on Gardam Street	185	2008	Alfred A. Knopf																				
"I want them to bite into a cookie, and think of me, and smile. Food is love. Food has a power. I knew it in my mind, but now I know it in my heart."	cut	literature	Jael McHenry	The Kitchen Daughter	272	2011	Gallery Books																				
"Cook was something women did to nourish and nurture their families, whereas for men it was largely something they did professionally to gain money and status."	fill	literature	Padma Lakshmi	"Love, Loss, and What We Ate: A Memoir"		2013	Ecco																				
"Tita knew through her own flesh how fire transforms the elements, how a lump of corn flour is changed into a tortilla, how a soul that hasn't been warmed by the fire of love is lifeless, like a useless ball of corn flour."	press	literature	Laura Esquivel	Like Water for Chocolate		1989	Doubleday																				
Food becomes a subtle way of showing intimacy.	turn-on	podcast	Obi Emelonye interviewed by Graihagh Jackson	"""Fantasy, fiction, and food,"" The Food Chain"	3:20		BBC																				
Zip it kiddo. Don't ever admit you know a thing about cooking or it'll be used against you later in life.	close	literature	Rebecca Wells	Little Altars Everywhere		1992	Broken Moon Press		HarperPerrenial	1996																	
"She quickly jumped back in with her favorite part of cooking, the smells that would influse the restaurant from  open to close."	fill	literature	Jenny Nelson	Georgia's Kitchen	267	2010	Gallery Books																				
"I've got a long history of scraping together little moments of peace in the midst of hardship, and cooking is a great way to do that."	peel	literature	Magaret Killjoy	The Lamb Will Slaughter the Lion	"""Five"""	2017	Tor																				
Cooking is about surrender.	empty	literature	Tembi Locke	"From Scratch: A Memoir of Love, Sicily, and Finding Home"	69	2019	Simon & Schuster																				
"There’s something brilliant about a recipe that doesn’t ask too much of you; a recipe, in fact, where getting it exactly right would be exactly wrong; a recipe you can fiddle with, and tend to when you remember."	squeeze	literature	Ella Risbridger	Midnight Chicken: & Other Recipes Worth Living For	"""Imperfect Pikelets"""	2019	Bloomsbury																				
Baking calms me; it's stabilizing. It's what I do when I don't want to think about anything hard.	adjust	literature	Jenny Han	P.S. I Still Love You	18	2017	Simon & Schuster																				
"I carried recipes in my head like maps. All kinds of recipes: torn from abandoned magazines in busy railway stations, wheedled from people on the road, strange marriages of my own confection. "	take	literature	Joanne Harris	Chocolat	"""Wednesday, February 9"""	1999	Berkley Publishing																				
"My Aunt Sara says it's in our blood, an innate need to tell a story through food. 'Buela says it's definitely a blessing, magic."	open	literature	Elizabeth Acevedo	With the Fire on High		2019	Hot Key Book																				
"In the secret kitchen of my imagination I made them all, tested, tasted them, added to my collection of recipes wherever we went, pasted them into my scrapbook like photographs of old friends."	take	literature	Joanne Harris	Chocolat		1999	Berkley Publishing																				
"I was happy to spend some time in the kitchen... I've got a long history of scraping together little moments of peace in the midst of hardship, and cooking is a great way to do that."	mix	literature	Margaret Killjoy	The Lamb Will Slaughter the Lion	"""Five"""	2017	Tor																				
Good cooking is a form of benevolence. 	pour	literature	Dorothy Whipple	Because Of The Lockwoods		1949	John Murray		Persephone Books	2014																	
"[There's a] point where you have to leave the dough alone. It's silly to anthropomorphize bread, but I love the fact that it needs to sit quietly, to retreat from touch and noise and drama, in order to evolve. I have to admit, I often feel that way myself."	put	literature	Jodi Picoult	The Storyteller	18	2013	Atria																				
"I stuck my finger in his eye, he would not let my hair go. It was definitely about to be a murder. And it was going to be me."	press	podcast	"Sonya Kristina King, interviewed by Emily Thomas"	"""How dangerous is your food delivery?"" The Food Chain, 1:52"		31 October 2019	BBC																				
Everything was so fast but so slow at the same time. I could not believe that an actual grown man was trying to hurt me.	squeeze	podcast	"Sonya Kristina King, interviewed by Emily Thomas"	"""How dangerous is your food delivery?"" The Food Chain, 7:00"		31 October 2019	BBC																				
"Do you think that [food delivery] is a dangerous job for women in particular? ""Yes. I do."""	cut	podcast	"Sonya Kristina King, interviewed by Emily Thomas"	"""How dangerous is your food delivery?"" The Food Chain, 10:50"		31 October 2019	BBC																				
"Cooking together creates a kind of intimacy that can be romance, or it can just be lovely and intimate."	open	podcast	Evan Kleiman	"""Cooking for two, dating sans alcohol, and edible underwear,"" Good Food, 1:-02"		8 February 2020	NPR																				
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											
																											